why here we are the sins three the
latest chapter in EAS crown jewel the
sims is the most successful pc game
series of all time with more than a
hundred million copies sold since the
first game debuted in January of 2000
yet let's be honest after almost a
decade of playing the sims and the sims
2 and the many expansion packs since
then the series is in need of a good
overhaul after all there's only so many
times you can send your sim to the
bathroom over and over and over again
thankfully EA has delivered the sims 3
and this is a major step forward for the
franchise the sims 3 is a bigger game
than its predecessors and it's a better
one let me tell you why now the core
concept of the sensory remains the same
this is basically a virtual people
simulator you create your Sims choosing
whether they're male or female what they
look like and you give them various
trades you then unleash them upon the
world where you can control their every
move or let them loose and see what they
do for themselves as such there's no
real single story in The Sims the story
is what you make of it you choose what
careers that your sins follow you choose
who they fall in love with you choose
whether they have kids or not you even
get to choose what sort of house they
live in and what furniture they surround
themselves with its how EA presents all
this in the sims 3 that is such a
welcome change though now we can't talk
about the game's graphics without
mentioning the big gameplay change
itself the symmetry simulates an entire
town at the same time rather than just a
single household like the previous games
suddenly the scale of the gameplay is so
much larger than before you can send
your sins anywhere in town without
hitting a loading screen this means that
you can have bigger adventures without
having to worry about sitting through
lengthy load times that loudoun is a
huge improvement over the previous games
your Sims themselves aren't a big leap
over their cousins from the sims 2 but
there are improvements here the facial
features are rounder and softer and a
bit more natural and there's a far
greater range of body types represented
this time around you also have a lot
more control on how they look you can
associate different hairstyles with
different
building types you can accessorize by
adding hats glasses watches and more
your Sims still speak in their charming
similar and the game has nice updates on
familiar since themes for the background
music everything though is clad in a
high degree of Polish with the trademark
humor that you've come to expect from
the franchise the big changes in the
sensory comes in how you play the game
it's now less about the mundane things
and more about the bigger ones your sims
go to the bathroom a lot less which
frees up more time for you to send them
out on the town you can work out at the
gym go fishing explore park go shopping
and more if you have multiple Sims you
can spread them out over the town and
switch to any of them almost instantly
now it's fun to go out and explore there
are various goals to work toward whether
it's vinson career advancing a
relationship or earning enough cash to
buy a cool object that makes life easier
and more enjoyable there's a nice sense
that the town that your sins inhabit is
a living breathing space anywhere you go
there are other sims going about their
business and you can make friends with
them or you can leave them alone and if
there's a lot that remains untapped in
this big new role of the sins your sim
still go to work but they disappear into
the buildings for hours at a time
wouldn't it be cool to actually control
them at work somehow and to make that
work interesting the sensory also lets
you share your content easier online
though the integration is nowhere near
is seamless or is easy to do as in Spore
still you can make movies and edit them
on the sensory website you can create
custom patterns furniture and clothing
and share them on the exchange and then
there's a Sims store which also purchase
new items clothing and sims using micro
transactions
huggies those put it all together and
the sensory is a satisfying advancement
in the series expanding the scale of the
game and paving the way for a lot of
growth in the future you now have a town
that you can explore with dozens of
other sins that you can interact with at
the same time the new game will be very
familiar to existing fans and there are
layers here that you can spend time
exploring it could be said that the sims
is pretty much critic proof is EA could
simply turn out more of the same and
sell millions of copies regardless but
it's admirable to see the series take
chances that for the most part pay off